Regional Sales Tracking in Video Games

Introduction
In 2023, the video game market is projected to reach a revenue of $249.60 billion USD1, a remarkable figure especially when considering how video games started as a niche pastime and 
were often marketed as toys for kids just a few decades ago. This staggering growth trajectory, slated to continue at an annual rate of 9.32% between 2023 and 2028, paints a picture of
an industry poised for even greater heights, with a projected market volume reaching $389.70 billion by 20282. However, as the projected revenue for the industry continues to rise, so
do the costs associated with game development, which means the decision of which platform to release a game on has become a pivotal determinant of success. Although launching a game on 
all platforms might have advantages, it also entails additional time and resource investments. Therefore, I am interested in understanding the correlation between the chosen game 
platform and the subsequent sales performance for games on that platform. The decision to pursue an international game release also entails significant expenses, such as translating 
the game, securing new voice actors if the game is voiced, navigating local regulations, and establishing supply chains. Considering these costs, I am also keen on investigating 
whether the geographic origins of the publisher play a role in influencing the reception of a video game in a specific region, as this could enable international game developers to 
collaborate with publishers who have a track record of success in a particular region, potentially enhancing sales. I believe that the choice of the game platform significantly 
influences sales outcomes, as does the geographic origins of a game’s publisher, and will showcase these factors in the coming sections.

Background
The dataset3 is a list of the 16718 mainstream video games released from 1980 to 2020 and was collected by scraping data from https://www.vgchartz.com/, a data and statistics repository
on video games. The dataset includes numerous variables: “platform” indicates the hardware for which the game was released, “genre” denotes the game’s categorization, “developers” 
specifies the development studio credited with creating the game, “publisher” refers to the group who published and marketed the game, “critic score” represents the average score given 
by video game critics, “user score” reflects the average score given by consumers, and each game includes global sales data along with individual sales data for the three major video 
game markets—EU (Europe), NA (North America), and JP (Japan). I can use the publisher and the sales data for each game to create a visualization depicting which publisher performs the 
best globally, and in each of the three major markets. The dataset enables us to address our questions of interest by using the publisher information and sales data for each game. With 
these variables, I can generate visualizations that illustrate the global performance of publishers, as well as their individual standings in the three major markets—Europe (EU), North
America (NA), and Japan (JP). Similarly, I can use the platform and global sales data variables to depict the success of games on particular platforms. It’s important to note a few 
certain irregularities in the dataset. Notably, as the dataset spans several decades, it includes publishers from the 1980s, some of which no longer exist or have undergone mergers, 
meaning it’s possible that some of the most popular publishers in the three major markets might not exist in their original form. Additionally, given that the dataset spans four 
decades, many publishers might be carried by their legacy of publishing quality titles, which might not accurately reflect their current status.

Potential Future Directions for Additional Work:
Market Trends Analysis: Explore the historical evolution of market trends in video game sales. Identify key turning points, emerging platforms, and shifts in consumer preferences.

Publisher Strategy Investigation: Conduct a deeper analysis of the strategies employed by successful publishers in each region. Investigate marketing approaches, localization efforts,
and partnerships that contribute to their success.

Cultural Influences: Investigate how cultural factors influence video game preferences. Examine specific genres, themes, or game elements that resonate differently in Western and 
Japanese markets.

Platform Loyalty Study: Explore the factors contributing to platform loyalty. Investigate whether exclusive titles, pricing strategies, or other factors play a significant role in 
consumers’ choices of gaming platforms.

Competitive Analysis: Compare and contrast the success of Sony’s platforms with those of competitors. Examine the strategies of Microsoft, Nintendo, and other major players in the 
gaming industry.

Different Methods to Address the Same Questions:
Qualitative Research: Conduct interviews or surveys with gamers to gain qualitative insights into their preferences, the influence of culture on their gaming choices, and their loyalty to specific platforms.

Comparative Case Studies: Analyze case studies of successful and unsuccessful game launches in different regions to understand the specific factors that contributed to their outcomes.

Social Media Analysis: Utilize social media analytics to gauge public sentiment and preferences related to video games. Monitor trends, discussions, and reactions to new releases.

Sources:

1. https://www.statista.com/outlook/dmo/digital-media/video-games/worldwide#revenue↩︎

2. https://www.statista.com/outlook/dmo/digital-media/video-games/worldwide#revenue↩︎

3. https://data.world/sumitrock/video-games-sales/workspace/file?filename=Video_Games.csv↩︎





